Add documentation for API server health checks (#21185)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/reference/using-api/health-checks.md

---
title: Kubernetes API health endpoints
reviewers:
- logicalhan
content_template: templates/concept
weight: 50
---

{{% capture overview %}}

> This page describes the usage of the Kubernetes API endpoints for liveness and readiness.

Reviewer: How about:
```suggestion
The Kubernetes {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="kube-apiserver" text="API server" >}} provides API
endpoints to indicate the current status of the API server.
This page describes these API endpoints and explains how you can use them.
```
?

{{% /capture %}}

{{% capture body %}}

> ## API Endpoints for health

Reviewer: nit (feel free to merge as-is):
```suggestion
## API Endpoints for health
```

(because page subheadings are sentence case, and also to avoid confusion with [the resource named Endpoints](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.18/#endpoints-v1-core)).

Author: I didn't see any difference here in the current state and you suggestions?

Reviewer: Ah, I must have meant:
nit (feel free to merge as-is):
```suggestion
## API endpoints for health
```

> Currently the Kubernetes API server supports 3 API endpoints (`healthz`, `livez`, `readyz`) to indicate the current status of the API server.

Reviewer: nit (feel free to merge as-is):
```suggestion
The Kubernetes API server provides 3 API endpoints (`healthz`, `livez`, and `readyz`) to indicate the current status of the API server.
```
Usually I avoid “currently”; it's either not needed, or it's part of a statement about future changes (which we [avoid](https://kubernetes.io/docs/contribute/style/style-guide/#avoid-statements-about-the-future) making). The other changes are also tweaks and if you prefer your original working that's absolutely fine.

> Since Kubernetes 1.16 the `healthz` endpoint is deprecated and the more specific `livez` and `readyz` should be used.

Reviewer: Phrasing nit (feel free to merge as-is):
```suggestion
The `healthz` endpoint is deprecated (since Kubernetes v1.16), and you should use the more specific `livez` and `readyz` endpoints instead.
```

(_How_ do people use these endpoints? For example: do they invoke `k8s.makeInformer()` with that path? The page as drafted is not really clear what kind of response you can negotiate or whether the body of the response is supposed to be machine-readable).

The `livez` endpoint can be used with the `--livez-grace-period` [flag](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/kube-apiserver) to specify the startup duration.

> For a graceful shutdown you can specify the `--shutdown-delay-duration` [flag](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/kube-apiserver) with the `/readyz` endpoint.

Reviewer: Please change these links to be relative URIs using absolute paths (eg `/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/kube-apiserver/`)

For all endpoints you can use the `verbose` parameter to print out the checks and their status:

```bash
$ curl -k https://localhost:6443/livez?verbose

> [+]ping ok

Reviewer: This is not a valid shell script. Please see [separate commands from output](https://kubernetes.io/docs/contribute/style/style-guide/#separate-commands-from-output) for details on the recommended style.

[+]log ok
[+]etcd ok
[+]poststarthook/start-kube-apiserver-admission-initializer ok
[+]poststarthook/generic-apiserver-start-informers ok
[+]poststarthook/start-apiextensions-informers ok
[+]poststarthook/start-apiextensions-controllers ok
[+]poststarthook/crd-informer-synced ok
[+]poststarthook/bootstrap-controller ok
[+]poststarthook/rbac/bootstrap-roles ok
[+]poststarthook/scheduling/bootstrap-system-priority-classes ok
[+]poststarthook/start-cluster-authentication-info-controller ok
[+]poststarthook/start-kube-aggregator-informers ok
[+]poststarthook/apiservice-registration-controller ok
[+]poststarthook/apiservice-status-available-controller ok
[+]poststarthook/kube-apiserver-autoregistration ok
[+]autoregister-completion ok
[+]poststarthook/apiservice-openapi-controller ok
healthz check passed
```

The Kubernetes API server also supports to exclude specific checks:

```bash
$ curl -k 'https://localhost:6443/readyz?verbose&exclude=etcd'

> [+]ping ok

Reviewer: This is not a valid shell script. Please see [separate commands from output](https://kubernetes.io/docs/contribute/style/style-guide/#separate-commands-from-output) for details on the recommended style.

The `healthz` endpoint is deprecated (since Kubernetes v1.16), and you should use the more specific `livez` and `readyz` endpoints instead.
The `livez` endpoint can be used with the `--livez-grace-period` [flag](/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/kube-apiserver) to specify the startup duration.
For a graceful shutdown you can specify the `--shutdown-delay-duration` [flag](/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/kube-apiserver) with the `/readyz` endpoint.
Machines that check the `health`/`livez`/`readyz` of the API server should rely on the HTTP status code.
A status code `200` indicates the the API server is `healthy`/`live`/`ready`, depending of the called endpoint.
The more verbose options shown below are intended to be used by human operators to debug their cluster or specially the state of the API server.

The following examples will show how you can interact with the health API endpoints.

For all endpoints you can use the `verbose` parameter to print out the checks and their status.
This can be useful for a human operator to debug the current status of the Api server, it is not intended to be consumed by a machine:

>     curl -k https://localhost:6443/livez?verbose

Reviewer: nit: you could mark this code block as shell?

The output will look like this:

    [+]ping ok
    [+]log ok
    [+]etcd ok
    [+]poststarthook/start-kube-apiserver-admission-initializer ok
    [+]poststarthook/generic-apiserver-start-informers ok
    [+]poststarthook/start-apiextensions-informers ok
    [+]poststarthook/start-apiextensions-controllers ok
    [+]poststarthook/crd-informer-synced ok
    [+]poststarthook/bootstrap-controller ok
    [+]poststarthook/rbac/bootstrap-roles ok
    [+]poststarthook/scheduling/bootstrap-system-priority-classes ok
    [+]poststarthook/start-cluster-authentication-info-controller ok
    [+]poststarthook/start-kube-aggregator-informers ok
    [+]poststarthook/apiservice-registration-controller ok
    [+]poststarthook/apiservice-status-available-controller ok
    [+]poststarthook/kube-apiserver-autoregistration ok
    [+]autoregister-completion ok
    [+]poststarthook/apiservice-openapi-controller ok
    healthz check passed

The Kubernetes API server also supports to exclude specific checks.
The query parameters can also be combined like in this example:

>     curl -k 'https://localhost:6443/readyz?verbose&exclude=etcd'

Reviewer: nit: you could mark this code block as shell?

    [+]poststarthook/start-apiextensions-informers ok
    [+]poststarthook/start-apiextensions-controllers ok
    [+]poststarthook/crd-informer-synced ok
    [+]poststarthook/bootstrap-controller ok
    [+]poststarthook/rbac/bootstrap-roles ok
    [+]poststarthook/scheduling/bootstrap-system-priority-classes ok
    [+]poststarthook/start-cluster-authentication-info-controller ok
    [+]poststarthook/start-kube-aggregator-informers ok
    [+]poststarthook/apiservice-registration-controller ok
    [+]poststarthook/apiservice-status-available-controller ok
    [+]poststarthook/kube-apiserver-autoregistration ok
    [+]autoregister-completion ok
    [+]poststarthook/apiservice-openapi-controller ok
    [+]shutdown ok
    healthz check passed

Each individual health check exposes an http endpoint and could can be checked individually.
The schema for the individual health checks is `/livez/<healthcheck-name>` where `livez` and `readyz` and be used to indicate if you want to check thee liveness or the readiness of the API server.
The `<healthcheck-name>` path can be discovered using the `verbose` flag from above and take the path between `[+]` and `ok`.

> These individual health checks should not be consumed by machines but can be helpful for a human operator to debug a system:

Reviewer 2: Can we explicitly call out that this is not a supported API (i.e. use these endpoints at your own discretion and we explicitly do not support forward API compatibility on these endpoints)?

Reviewer: Is there a feature state or similar to go with that @logicalhan? If it's viable to call them “alpha” then that's easy to do, the website even has a shortcode for that.

(If it's not tracked as a feature state, I feel that could be an issue against [k/kubernetes](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes) so that at least the lack of tracking is visible).

Reviewer 2: it's not really a feature state.. these endpoints are actually pre-versioned, legacy endpoints which do not have the traditional API versioning guarantees.

Reviewer: Which is closer: alpha (don't rely on these, a future release could remove them without warning) or GA (you'll get plenty of official notice about deprecation)?

It sounds like the former. Are they perhaps insta-deprecated? I'd like to have some way of relating the stability to https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/using-api/deprecation-policy/ - even if that means amending the deprecation policy page!

Reviewer 2: alpha seems reasonable.
